Welcome all that we're going to go ahead and create ourselves an environment for development.
There are a few things which we need to do and install from the net.
As you can see I am using a Windows virtual machine here.
I'm not actually a Windows user myself but I figure that most of you will be using Windows so I'll show
you how to do it in Windows first and there will be a section down below that will show you how to do
it in Linux.
Once you set the environment up in Windows and Linux and on Mac or most likely do a demo on how to how
to do it on a Mac as well.
The development will be pretty much the same there will be no differences once you open up the development
environment.
It's the same on all three systems.
They pretty much are new differences aside from the cosmetic ones.
So I'm going to go ahead and put my virtual machine into full screen mode so it won't see anything in
the background.
On There we go.
And we're going to go ahead and proceed with our installation.
Now I'm using a fresh install of Windows.
There is nothing else installed on the system.
I have installed Windows maybe like 10 minutes ago and now I have set it up.
I've created this virtual machine of Windows like 10 minutes ago and now I'm going to go ahead and show
you how to actually install how to actually set up the development environment.
The idea which we will be using is called Adam and it is cross-platform so you can install it on Mac
Linux and Windows as well without any problems.
Aside from that we will need a development server so we will go ahead and download that as well.
The very first thing that I'm going to do here is actually download Firefox.
Some of you might wonder why didn't I do it like before.
But I really wanted to go from scratch quite literally on a fresh installed and a fresh installed Windows
machine where there is literally nothing else.
So there is nothing.
Yes go ahead.
Install got all of the windows permissions system where you just click yes and that's it.
It's downloading Firefox This shouldn't take too long.
I can't I don't know my way around Explorer.
I'm going to give you a heads up so I don't want to look too confusing.
I'm just going to download it quickly and then we'll actually proceed into Download now.
Well this is going on.
Keep in mind that you can use your browser you want see I would advise you to use Firefox or crow.
So one of the two I wouldn't really advise using Internet Explorer in the past it has been known to
be incompatible with some of the newer technologies.
So to say I hear that the newer versions of Explorer are working just fine with pretty much everything
but back I don't know a couple of.
I haven't used that in a very long time so I don't know.
But back in the day I know that it was incompatible with a lot of things in that it was lagging behind
in terms of technology is applied to it quite a good deal behind Firefox and Chrome.
So definitely use either Firefox or chrome.
Go ahead and you can go ahead and download either one of those two.
Both of them are completely free browsers from the net.
Firefox is completely open source as well and Druckmann that use Firefox but I cannot really say that
there are any technical reasons why I'm recommending Firefox or chrome.
It's mostly my sentimental reasons because I'm using it on Linux as well.
Also on Mac you can use the Mac browser.
It shouldn't be a problem either.
So you can use Safari there without any problems.
Don't import anything.
Next
yes I would like to use it as a default browser and God Windows is going to make me do some settings
here isn't it.
Firefox excellence.
I've changed out.
Another reason why I'm sure why I'm actually installing the browser in front of you all is due to the
fact that as I said you shouldn't be using Internet Explorer for this although you probably can but
no guarantees there really the very first thing that we're going to do is open up whatever page comes
along and use our favorite search engine you can use whichever one you want and type in Adam.
OK that didn't really help us out a lot.
Right.
We did it actually.
OK.
So it did open up the site.
It's HTP as Collins slash.
Adam dart I O.
So go ahead and click on it.
And regardless of whether you are in a Mac or whether you are on Windows that this site should recognize
your user agent by default from where it will pool your operating system information and it will serve
you right download straight away.
So if you're on a Mac it's going to say download for Mac or something like that anyway just go ahead
and click on download Windows Installer.
OK.
So save file again if you really need me to do a set up Tauriel for Mac.
Do let me know.
But I think I'm going to go ahead and do one anyway.
So no worries there.
The installation is pretty straight forward.
Although on Linux it's somewhat different.
I would say simpler but that's mostly it's not really that I can claim for any technical reasons.
Again it's mostly because I am a Linux user and I'm just more more acquainted with it than I am with
Windows.
But as I said once you actually set the development environment up it will be the same across all three
platforms with only minor cosmetic differences.
So you won't have any problems there.
Depending on your internet connection this might take some time.
Hopefully not too long.
While this is going on we can go ahead and safely open up another tab without any worries of cancelling
your download.
And we're going to go ahead and start looking for node.
J.S. Jess so just go ahead and jump over to their website and there is the version 6 1 6 1 0.
This is the current version with the latest features.
But I am going to go ahead and download the four point four point four Eltis LDS stands for long term
support.
Those are the stable versions.
And during our learning stages it is always best to download the long term support ones already stable
versions because as a beginner you really and I cannot emphasize this enough you really don't want to
be messing around with all the undocumented bugs and encountering new problems to which which haven't
been solved and to go about solving them yourself.
You will lose incredible amount of time.
So just go ahead and select the LTL version.
Believe me when I tell you it makes quite literally no difference to you as a beginner.
There are differences of course between these two versions but you as a beginner on this level.
It is not of any importance.
I assure you that it is far better to go with the long term support when you can of course go with the
latest one.
The unstable one as it is usually referred to this is a common terminology have DLT Yes and you have
unstable testing.
This is also used for operating systems for example for Linux.
You will generally have the unstable version and the long term support one.
If you're a beginner you will always go for the long term support.
Or if you are if you want the operating system for a server you will of course go for the long term
support.
Wonder you're not insane to go for the unstable one with the server.
Now what do I mean by unstable and long term support.
This is a general term that that is applicable across pretty much all the applications out there.
Unstable doesn't mean that it's faulty that it's bad etc. it just means that there are a lot of new
features there that are yet to be tested out that it's still in the development stages and you are bound
to encounter problems which you will need to solve.
Now I could.
It wouldn't be that much of a bother for me or for somebody or some people that I know that are pretty
good with it.
They will be able to solve the problems in a relatively short amount of time and would probably enjoy
doing so.
But for you while you are learning I strongly advise that we go with the stable version so that we don't
spend too much time fixing bugs going about solving problems which are really not up to you to solve.
As a beginner.
So the next thing that we're going to need to do is go jump over to get help and this will be our development
server.
So to say No way.
Don't take that with a grain of salt.
We're going to go ahead and type in angular slash.
Quick Start.
We're going to go ahead and press enter there and the very first it should be the very first one so
it's spelled angular slash QuickStart.
Go ahead and click on it.
Now there are a lot of things here like quite literally that we will not actually require but there
is really no need to filter this file out.
I mean we probably will at a certain point of time to an extent but the additional fileshare which we
won't use will not do you harm.
So to say so don't worry about it too much just go ahead and click on download zip and we're gonna go
ahead and say save file.
I don't believe that I have anything that can open this file up but that is yet to be seen.
OK QuickStart extract extract all downloads.
No I don't want you to extract it there.
I shall extract it to desktop.
OK so that will be the selection of the folder.
So just click on browse find your desktop.
Click on it and then click on select folder and then click on extract.
Yep there we go the extraction process should be fairly fast.
I do not require any additional tools.
As I said this is a fresh install of Windows.
I have not installed any additional tools including the browser I've installed it 10 minutes prior to
the beginning of this tutorial and just double click on it so you can see everything is in here.
All the all the necessary all the necessary files are there.
Now if you just go ahead and check if my downloads are done my downloads are done.
OK so now if we have everything that we need to begin installation and setup procedure if we've pulled
everything from net we're going to go ahead and proceed into actually installing these things and setting
them up one by one.
We shall do that in part to.